Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,
Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore.
Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December,
And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
Eagerly I wished the morrow;--vainly I had sought to borrow
From my books surcease of sorrow--sorrow for the lost Lenore.
Sorrow for the lost Lenore.
For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore--
Nameless here for evermore.
'T is some visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door--
Some late visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door.
Here I opened wide the door;--
Darkness there, and nothing more.
Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before.
'Surely,' said I, 'surely that is something at my window lattice;
Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore.'
Open here I flung the shutter.
... A stately Raven of the saintly days of yore.
Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he.
Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door--
Perched, and sat, and nothing more.
Wandering from the Nightly shore.
Till I scarcely more than muttered, 'Other friends have flown before--
On the morrow _he_ will leave me, as my hopes have flown before.'
Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking
Fancy unto fancy.
But whose velvet violet lining with the lamplight gloating o'er
_She_ shall press, ah, nevermore!
'Wretch,' I cried, 'thy God hath lent thee--by these angels he hath sent thee
Respite--respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore!'
On this home by Horror haunted.
... Tell me truly, I implore--
Is there--_is_ there balm in Gilead?--tell me--tell me, I implore!
Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,
It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore.
'Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!' I shrieked, upstarting.
'Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore!'
And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
Shall be lifted--nevermore!